Nobody can remember being friends with
Russia now, but we were
When I started
you couldn't think of going to Russia. I
remember I once my my early days, I was
in the commodities business also. I
started in the commodities business. I
used to go to Russia in the early '80s,
literally 1982 and 1983, middle of the
Cold War. I remember when the plane
would take off and you wouldn't go
direct, you'd go switch. The plane would
go in the air, people would start
applauding when the plane lifted off.
You couldn't imagine Russia being
normal, like a place to do business.
Then in the go-go years after the fall
of the
of the iron the curtain, you'd go there
and it was like the what
It was
It was It was capitalism on steroids.
And you thought that that was going to
endure.
And now, you know, it reversed again.
Same thing with China. When, you know,
we invested a lot of time. I personally
invested a lot of time. And Lloyd and
your brother, we still have a big
business in China, but it's, you know,
as you imagine, it's strained now. It's
very hard to do business.
The music has kind of a Western [music]
vibe. Yeah, it's nice. It's very
>> It's very polarizing for our audience.
Some people love it, some people hate
[music] it. Um Joe, I have a confession
to make. Yeah, go on.
This is probably the most nervous I've
ever been for an Odd Lots episode.
>> for real? Yeah, and I'll tell you why.
And actually, the reason why you'll know
cuz you were there.
>> I do know. The first time Joe and I ever
met Lloyd Blankfein in person was at a
sort of media round table. And for some
reason, I felt it incumbent upon myself
to tell a joke.
>> You were late, too. Oh, I was. Yeah, you
came in late.
>> I forgot that part.
>> I liked that. I told a joke to try to,
you know,
make it up, I guess. Um probably the
joke was at Goldman's expense. At which
point Lloyd leaned forward on the table
and he said "Let me tell you how I would
have made that joke funny."
And the worst part was he then made a
very, very good joke that was a lot
funnier than what I had just said.
>> I think I said
You're supposed to you should put the
punchline at the end, not at the
beginning. That's right. Wait, can we
actually talk about what the joke was?
The context of the joke? Cuz I remember
it well. Go on. So Tracy So the whole
reason that the um
that the media roundtable happened was
that apparently Lloyd was supposed to be
in London for or sorry, in China for
some reason. And something happened like
um someone from the UK was there and
Lloyd's schedule had got changed. And so
they at the last second they're like,
"Oh, maybe some reporters will bring
in." And then the joke that Tracy made
>> [laughter]
>> was something about having to like oh,
were you going to go there to recruit
princelings for Goldman Sachs, which at
the time was, you know, one of those
scandals out there.
>> it was better than that.
>> was the theme of the joke. It was at it
was at Goldman's expense.
>> All right. So we all learned our lesson,
which is don't try to be funnier than
Lloyd cuz he'll beat you at it every
time. But Lloyd, congratulations on the
book.
>> Well, thank you. Um very exciting to be
speaking with you. One thing I learned
from the book is that you're spending
your time trading now. And when I read
that, I sort of had a vision of you on
your phone on Robinhood trading like
zero-day options or something like that.
What are you actually trading? I I
>> And where? Well, I'm sort of committed
to Goldman. I would be on Robinhood
except except for the history. Now, to
me that's um
one of the occupational hazards of my uh
of my prior life is that um
I watch markets all the time. I watch
markets at night while I'm asleep. And
so I know the price of everything all
the time. And I trade, but it's not like
when you say I'm spending you you spend
your time trading. No, it's just
background noise. While I'm having a
conversation with in my in my in my life
with people I you know, hang around with
sometimes in business, it is not
considered to rude that if you're
talking to somebody, you're not looking
at them but looking at a screen or a
phone or something like that. That that
that that's that's kind of okay. So it's
like
>> I work with Joe. I I know. So trade
doing that, when somebody says, "What
percentage of your time?"
you trying it's like listening to music.
You can listen to music while you're
doing something else. So you it adds up
to more than 100%.
Um what are you trying No, I'm not We're
not here for stock recommendations, but
like what's interesting markets and such
that you feel compelled to click buttons
and try to anticipate moves.
>> Well, that could Well, I was always kind
of a macro I mean I came up through you
know what what would be we call them you
know the macro markets the large things
interest rates you know government
policy
uh uh fiscal you know the sort of stuff
that kind of moves all assets together
although there's always differences. So
that's my background, but I you know so
you know themes I mean
everybody now is in the is in tech
because if you weren't in tech you'd be
bankrupt because you'd be wrong for all
this time. So everybody is given how the
markets have moved so sort of
consistently for a very long time.
I could tell you what everybody is kind
of in and of course I could tell you
who's getting hurt in any given part
when it get when it gets upset for a
day, but I'm in
probably things that wouldn't surprise
you, but maybe the biggest surprise is
that I'm all in. You know so like I'm
always 100% in equities now. Wow.
Yeah, risk assets. That's
That's what you say risk assets.
>> Risk assets, right? Risky assets. Well,
so after you retired from Goldman some
people were surprised that you didn't
choose to go into politics like some of
your peers. Yeah, well, explain that.
Like why why did you You took a proper
break when you left Goldman? Yeah, well,
let me tell you if they if if somebody
gave me something overwhelmingly
interesting and fun I might have done
it.
My last five predecessor five of my last
six predecessors either went into the
cabinet except for Jon Corzine he became
senator New Jersey, but you know you
know Bob Rubin and
and Hank Paulson Treasury secretaries
and and whatnot. I came out in the
I stopped in 2018 and end of 2000 so the
second half of the uh
of the first of Trump one.
The beginning of Trump one, you know,
the economic team was Gary Cohn and
Steve Mnuchin, all ex ex-Goldman. So, I
think I think we had had enough of that
and I certainly didn't want to I didn't
want to like add myself to the list at
that point. And so, kind of drifted on,
then I drifted through COVID and I say,
you know, I kind of like this.
You know, not setting alarm clock in the
morning, Saturday afternoon having lunch
with people, and not having to go to the
airport on a Saturday afternoon so I
could get to so I can get to Beijing
first thing Monday morning. And so, it's
it's it's it's easy to get used to
sloth.
So, here's the thing, I get not taking
some big job after retirement. Like, I
totally get that. I get wanting to trade
and that sounds like stimulating and
intellectually, you know, interesting
and fun and so forth. Here's what I
don't get. Why don't you tweet more? And
the reason I asked that is like because
like I'm addicted to posting and a lot
of people in your shoes or at your
level, they feel this impulse to like
always weigh in on everything. And
Twitter's a great place to do it. I did
for a while. I know, but never that
much. And what I want to know is like
Oh, no, no. I I was I was fighting with
people I was fighting with people that
had subpoena power. Okay, so how do you
resist the temptation to keep doing it?
Cuz I would like to know how to post
less. So, how do you resist the urge to
chime in on everything?
>> I was in the I was in the risk
management business.
And so, the risk reward of certain
things. So, for example, you know,
retired.
When you
when when things are going badly, you
quit you can't leave my job. And by the
way, we had the crisis of the century
every 4 years and most of the time
they'd accuse us of and probably you,
accuse us of causing it. Falsely, of
course.
>> I did write a few of those tweets.
>> Yes, and I'm sure I
I pretend to have forgotten that.
Um,
but when things are going well, you
know, when things are badly, you can't
leave. When things are going well, you
don't want to leave, which is why in my
line of work
everybody leaves in distress.
You know, you get fired, something comes
over, the world blows up, you don't do
well, you have you know, you lose
something happens, and I didn't do that.
I left on my own steam. Yeah. And I quit
tweeting. I still tweet very
occasionally, but I mostly tweet quit
tweeting
before I got canceled. Which is very
unusual.
>> Impressive. Cuz most people quit after
they been Most people Most people get
quit. They don't quit on their own.
>> And you chalk that up to your natural
risk management knowledge and intuitions
you're like, you know what?
I'm just going I'm not going to do it
until the end when you You're not going
to go all the way until you get
>> it up to my normal anxiety and my not
wanting to um you know, get killed. So,
uh cowardice you might call. You know,
just sensible Well, sensible sense
sensibility. But really, um
most of that stuff
and I always
you know, because I was doing things on
the line. I would fight with you know,
Elizabeth Warren and well, you know, you
know, you know, largely because they
would say something, you know, mostly I
was responding. Um and I kind of liked
it. And then the problem is
you get a good reaction some you know,
good reaction and then you start to feel
clever. Yeah.
>> And when you start to feel clever,
that's when you're going to get killed
because then you think, "Gee, this is
irresistible." And then somebody might
say, "Well, you know,
they're not going to like that." And I
said, "How can I resist? It's so
clever." Yeah. And so, guess what? I
found my I found it I found it
resistible. So, I stopped.
>> Yeah, it just takes one bad tweet.
>> That's right. Um so, when I think about
your career and you know, I read the
whole book, so I know your career
trajectory fairly well at this point. I
kind of think of it as synonymous with
globalization and you know, you rode the
sort of wave of international expansion
and then you retired in 2018 and it
turned out 2018, 2020 was sort of the
end of that globalization era. Yeah, the
world is a little less flat.
>> Yeah. When when you look back on that
time, do you think that was
a blip? Was that an unusual circumstance
that's never going to be repeated?
>> I start you know, when sent when
sentiment changes
it changes your memory of what you used
to think. It's kind of a weird thing.
So, nobody can remember being friends
with Russia now, but we were
when I started
you couldn't think of going to Russia. I
remember I once my my early trips I was
in the commodities business also. I
started in the commodities business and
used to go to Russia in the early '80s,
literally like 1982 and 1983, middle of
the Cold War. I remember when the plane
would take off and you you wouldn't go
direct you go to Swiss the plane would
go in the air people started applauding
when the plane lifted off. You couldn't
imagine Russia being normal like a place
to do business. Then in the go-go years
after the fall of the of the iron the
curtain, you'd go there and it was like
the what
it was
it it was it was capitalism on steroids.
And you thought that that was going to
endure.
And now, you know, it reversed again.
Same thing with China. When you know, we
invested a lot of time. I personally
invested a lot of time and effort. You
know, we both of us still have a big
business in China, but it's you know, as
you imagine it's strained now. It's very
hard to do business. We had a lot of
joint ventures that can't be done
because it's a Chinese
uh
you know, so it's too much of a Chinese
association for it. But when I started
you couldn't have gone. Then for a long
time you thought we were growing into
each other. That we were going
and then you know, now we hit speed
bump. The point is there are cycles to
everything. It's not a question of
something being a blip. Everything is a
blip and everything gets a little bit
undone. I think I would have said
and I still believe I think the tendency
is for things to improve to get better.
You know, what happened? What you know,
globalization.
Um it's It's just the rivalries or the
polarization of the East and the West.
I'll tell you,
the global financial crisis
contributed to that because what
happened was, you know, there was the
central banks of the world and the
governments of the world were
coordinating their policies.
And then when And then when it hit the
fan,
in a digital world where nothing really
moves except electrons and and and and
digital notations, it suddenly became
important to each government where a
where institutions' assets were. If the
assets were in the United The United
States US The US
central bank, the Fed, was lending
money, for example, to
the US US affiliate of Deutsche Bank,
and they were lending to Deutsche Bank
multiples of the assets that Deutsche
Bank had subject to the US. Cuz most of
their assets were Germany. Well, as soon
as people realized that, and it became
very 19th century. It became, "Where are
the assets?" Like physically, as if they
were really physical assets as opposed
to But assets have a location, and they
discovered that. Similarly, I mean, you
can even go case by data point by data
point, COVID. It made a real difference
who where they were manufacturing the
vaccines or who got them first or the
PPE and all this other stuff. And so,
now, of course, that was that's been,
you know, emphasized now because now
it's, you know, America first, and I'm
sure, you know, I don't speak German,
but I'm sure in Germany it's Germany
first, and it's like that. But that also
will evolve, and that's that cycle will
go again because
you know, does the world It turns out
when when we started to globalize, say,
does Europe
does Europe need
14 battery makers? Shouldn't they just
have three for the whole thing? And then
it became very important that you had a
battery maker if it's strategic in your
own country and supply chains, another
thing that make people less global.
When you think about that time, you
know, there's incredible the Fed opening
up swap lines with central banks all
around the world, uh banks getting
support even if they're not necessarily
primarily domiciled in the US. Do you
think that
that would even be possible today in the
current media environment? Because it
was controversial then, but not many
people knew what was Well, it would it
would be what was going on. First of
all, you have to do what Okay. So,
you know, would you think it would be
possible to in a in a in a in an America
first presidency, we were not going to
go into wars, is this possible? But of
course, you know, he felt, you know,
obviously he felt there was some
compulsion to do it. People may
disagree, but that's certainly how he's
representing it. So, you do what you
have to do. If we had a crisis like
that,
somebody you would have to sort out the
banking system.
Now,
you can you can want to, you know, bring
them up in trial and kill them, you
know, um do whatever you want to it, but
at the end of the day,
governments don't lend money to people,
and central banks don't lend money to
people. The transmission for
economic policy and for monetary policy
and getting money out into the public is
the banking system. And if the banks are
distressed,
if you gave them money,
they husband that money to increase
their reserves so they could be solvent.
And in fact, they have to do that. The
regulation requires that they do that.
And so, it's very very hard to get money
and resources and get people going and
provide that stimulus to the general
public with a distressed banking system,
which is why
the uh the big recession was a big
recession because it was very hard to
get over. Today, if we had bad
employment, if growth went down, and we
weren't particularly worried about
inflation, it'd be no problem to
stimulate the economy. You take rates
down, fiscal spending, the banks are in
good shape. If the banks are in bad
shape, that's very hard to do.
I mean, since we're talking sort of
hypothetical crisis scenarios, one of
the things we sometimes hear from people
is because the US government is very
polarized at the moment. Maybe some
people would say feels a little bit
disorganized at times. If we had a
financial crisis, the response would be
a lot less direct or a lot less swift
than what we saw in 2008 when we had
ex-Goldmanites like Hank Paulson at the
helm. Um or Geithner for that matter.
What's your sense of how the current
administration would react to something
like that?
>> Look, I I I've said this and you know,
you don't you don't know. Nobody knows
anything, but my guess is
they would be fleet of foot and they
would do cuz you have to do what you
have to do. They would hate Look,
they would hate if that had to happen
hypothetically.
They would hate it.
They hated it in 2008. Really hated it.
Really really 15 more really's hated it,
but
we were look, you know, staring at not
so much staring at the abyss like it
would have gone, but
my guess and I I I I and everyone's
always ask you, I think there was like
you know, like a 15 7 15 to 20% chance
that it could have really have gone off
the rails. And that we really would have
a crisis that would have taken a very
long time because what happens is
in a in a kind of crisis where there's
credit, a credit crisis, which is what
it was, a a credit crisis,
we owe each other money. There's a daisy
chain of money. You bought something
from him, he bought it from me and and
that goes around.
In a credit where you don't know the
solvency of your counterpart, you're not
going to pay me until I pay you. So,
you're waiting.
But I can't pay him unless I get my
money from you. So, I'm stuck. And he's
stuck and he's stuck and he's stuck. So,
the system is frozen.
You need somebody with a big balance
sheet, which is usually a government, to
say, "We will for the short term cover
it, so all of you will get paid. Now,
go." And generally, you don't have to
use the money. The money comes back
because it's just in security that
drives that. And I think the government
would have to do that. They'd hate it,
but would have to do that. And by the
way, this
Is that going to happen again? You know,
fortune you know,
it was a once in 80 year storm. Oh, you
know, I'm not sure I don't think I'm I'm
going to see the next one. But, you
know,
it's um
these things
You know, when you get through a crisis
like that, everyone says, "Let's ensure
we never have another crisis again." And
you know how you can do that? You can
turn yourself into a Treasury bill. You
can turn your And even a Treasury bill
has a risk because you're taking a risk
with the value that the value of the
dollar doesn't get inflated away and it
retains its purchasing power. If you
take zero out risk, you will have zero
progress and zero growth. And so, what
happens is And again, it's a cycle to
things. You come out of that and you
say, "Never, never, never, never." You
implement very, very tough
protocols and regulations and things.
And over time, you start to think, you
know, it'll be a lot growthier if the if
there was more
>> Growthier is a good word.
>> It'll be a lot growthier. Oh, wouldn't
it be great if if banks did mortgages
again? Oh, wouldn't it be great if you
didn't have to put down 30% to get a
mortgage? And blah, blah, blah. And it
relaxes at time. Memories start to dim.
And
it gets to a point and maybe it gets
past the point where it shouldn't and
the cycle resumes and you say, "How
could that have happened again so soon?
It's only been 80 years." Right.
So, one area and you've commented on
this a little bit in your
in your little media tour over the last
several days last day, yes. Um but, you
know, we've had a lot of stress in
private assets, private credit in
particular. Some of the big companies
having issue all kinds of issues.
It's one thing for it to be bad and
maybe it's one thing for people to lose
money. Is there anything about the
structure though that could get systemic
where it becomes something beyond just
investors lost money because they made
bad bets?
>> you know, we're talking about credit. I
think the general issue is illiquid
Yeah.
>> illiquid stuff. Could be private equity.
And you know, like everything like
everything else that balloons into a
crisis,
of course I don't think it's going to be
systemic. No one does. No one thought
because if everyone thought it would be
systemic, you know, we would have fixed
it or we would have done something about
it before it got to that point. You're
always surprised. Even the people who
you think are in the inside or should
know better, they're also surprised,
too.
I don't know, you know, these the
private credit and other private assets,
I think they're generally of course by
by definition they don't trade publicly,
so they're less liquid and probably
maybe in sometimes illiquid and
consequently very hard to price. So,
when you have your asset and you look at
your you know, you you look at your
accounting and you own this and you get
a mark-to-market, is it reliable? Is it
where you can sell it? There are a lot
of private assets on people's balance
sheets that take private equity. We've
just gone through a period of time where
we've had
um record equity prices
in a world that's awash with liquidity,
the best financing market, and there's
still an accumulation of assets on on
the balance sheet of companies that are
in the business of selling selling the
assets they invest in yet it hasn't
happened. So, maybe they're marked for
sale really to be done. So, that's that
could be an issue in general. I'd say
one of the thing now,
there's nothing wrong with private
credit, private asset, private equity as
long as the returns, the expected
returns, compensate you for the
illiquidity and the people you're
communicating to understand the
illiquidity and the consequence of the
illiquidity to them. I'm not sure, you
know, that has to be made clear. I'm I'm
always sure that it is and certainly if
it goes wrong, no one will remember
having been told that. So, I would say
and take taking account of that, I would
say
a particular private asset, whether it's
credit or private equity, is no
different in your hand and an
individual's hands or an institution's
hands.
But, the consequence
of it going badly is much
it's much more is much worse if it's
individual hands. Why is that? Because I
would say the official sector can watch
institutions, very high net worth
individuals lose money, and not be
particularly perturbed about that.
>> Yeah. But, when it goes to consumers and
retails,
other names for which are citizens and
taxpayers and voters, Yeah. the public
the official sector gets very perturbed.
So, one of
one of the comments I made is without
opining whether these are good, or
whether the marks are correct, or
whether
the the illiquidity premium you're
getting is adequate or not, I just said,
you know, be careful. Some of these
firms, people who run these firms have
fabulous lives, do very well for a long
time, have boats and everything, and
great having multiple houses.
Have some trepidation about extending
your business
from institutions into 401(k)s,
people ETS, people who are less than
people who are less than the highest net
worth individuals. And by the way,
adjacent insurance companies, which is
sort of one order away from individuals,
because insurance companies insure real
people and need to be solvent. So,
that's something that I'd say is
happening to it's not just the nature of
the assets, but where some of these
assets are being put now.
So, I take the point about retail
investors and private credit, but just
putting your old Goldman Sachs CEO hat
on again. I mean, one of the things
Goldman was famous for was its very
dynamic risk management at the time. Um,
and so I'm very curious,
walk us through in excruciating detail
how you as CEO of Goldman Sachs would be
managing private credit risk at the
moment on a day-to-day basis for
something that, you know, might be
marked to market quarterly.
>> risk that we had? Well, just
hypothetically.
Yes, but we had all that. We had a lot
of risk management like that. We had a
lot of risk. I mean
the in the financial crisis, everyone's
focused on mortgages. Some of the
biggest risks that we had were just loan
commitments to company where we have a
very big with the biggest M&A house. So,
we have very very big M&A franchise,
which means
that if you do an M&A deal, you commit
to the financing. So, we had a lot of
financing commitments outstanding. That
was That was sort of eye-opening at the
time uh because we had commitments to
make loans um at um
which, believe me, at the time, you
know, when things are going crazy, it's
the last thing you want to do is is do
that. And so, the we had to manage those
risks. So, you know, what do we do?
We make sure in the lead-up to the
crisis, you know, once something is
happening,
you know, it's pretty late to start
doing stuff when everybody's trying to
get out of the same stuff. Um, we always
i- i- i-
we we sort of always knew we
we had a we had a, you know, a real
abiding respect for reality. So, we
would always try to mark stuff to
market. And very religiously, we had a
separate group Half the firm would take
risk and the half would mark would do
the marks. And sometimes the risk takers
would disagree and say, "Oh, that mark
is too conservative. I think this
asset's worth more." And we'd say,
"Fine. I'm sure you're right. Go sell
something and prove that your mark is
better than their mark is that it's
worth more." We would do that
religiously. I mean, we were firm on
that. And then when things started to
get bad, when people couldn't sell
things for where they thought it was, we
started marking it lower. And when that
started to happen, we didn't necessarily
think
we didn't have a view of what was going
to happen. We went into risk management
mode. So, it didn't matter whether I was
bullish or bearish. Stuff is happening.
And so, we just put out the word, stay
close to home. So, we have to take risk.
People come to us to to buy from them
what they want to sell, to sell to them
what they want to buy. We get caught in
risk-taking situations from our general
activities for our clients. But,
whenever we were veering too much in one
direction, getting too long and getting
too short, we would stop until there was
another side to it, and we would source
the other side. So, I mean, the key for
us was not reacting crazily when
when the when when it started to go
badly, but what we did in the lead-up.
The other thing we did when we couldn't
get other sides to things, we bought
insurance in the market.
>> Mhm. Famously. From famously from other
banks for very little because it was
worth very little. We bought insurance
on AAA companies
that weren't turned out not to be AAA.
It We didn't do that because they
thought that, "Aha, these really aren't
AAA companies." Oh, no, we thought they
were AAA companies, but we just didn't
want to have too much exposure to
anything at that point. And the good
thing about the fact that
it doesn't
you know, it doesn't look like you need
the insurance is that the people who
sell you the insurance don't charge you
very much because they think it's free
money.
And [snorts] by the way, we thought we
were wasting money, and it turned out
not. But, that's just a discipline that
you have to have all the time. You can't
have that discipline when it looks like
things are going bad. You have to have
those at that discipline when things are
looking good.
Right. That makes a lot of sense. Um
New York City, how are you feeling? Is
New York City the center of the finance
world today the same way it was 15, 30
years ago? And is is that at risk?
Look, New York City is still where
people come, young people come
especially,
to
to learn what to to learn from their
colleagues and to be around and be
surrounded by a good culture and a good
place. And I think that's why
you know, that's why I love the book and
I thought it was a brilliant book, but I
thought it was wrong. The world is flat.
You know, you can be stimulated by
something that's not right. The fact of
the matter is, you know, you could be
hooked up and uh you know, and and and
you know, and and be living in Warsaw,
which by the way is a financial
community and then and there's a lot of
tech people in and and uh
in Warsaw. But
people who are smart and ambitious want
to be around other people who are smart
and ambitious.
>> changed at all?
I'd say there are more pods than there
were before. So, I think there's
communities in San Obviously in San
Francisco, which is a tech community. A
subtech community is Boston, which has
biotech. And so there are other places
that that grow, but I still think the
highest concentration is still New York.
People are promoting Miami. Yeah.
>> that. And there's a lot of you know, a
lot of reasons for it. Like you get to
keep more of your money because there's
no state tax. Expensive place to live in
New York. By the way, very expensive
place to die. I don't know why I'm
thinking those dark thoughts now. But uh
because we New York has an estate has an
estate tax and even California doesn't.
But so for tax reasons and for reasons
of uh sunshine, people are going there,
but it's not New York. It's still New
York you know, kind of sort of, you
know, you know. On the Miami thing, I
like Miami.
Um but like like you you're still like
why aren't you there? Do you don't spend
183 days of the year
>> I'm still in New York. I'm a New York
New York taxpayer.
>> why?
Stupid.
>> [laughter]
>> No, I do it But New York City is the
greatest, right? I have uh you know, my
wife, you know, we have kids and we have
grandkids. I tell my wife from time to
time, if you really loved your kids and
your grandkids, you'd move to Florida.
Um you know, and um but I just said no.
Um
but You know we like being around a
family. We have
plenty of money.
I probably and
you know
my my wife I don't know how things run
in your household but
I would say that um
she has full voting control.
Understood. I'm not going to say
anything. Holding back comment right
now. Um
So I just want to go back to risks for a
second. So you know in your book you
talk a little bit about private credit
but the one risk you highlight as the
sort of big one that that worries you
the most is some sort of technological
risk like a giant
>> yeah. You know he has said the world is
going to end in a whimper not a bang.
You know everybody's talking about
malevolent state agents you know taking
it down.
Every time we lost stuff and we had some
wonderful problems in technology early.
They were
Well every once in a while there was
some bad behavior and somebody hid
something for a while.
But most of the time it was a fat
finger.
Mhm. Like I remember one famous incident
where somebody now why anybody would do
this but they were they were testing
some software.
And in the software they were you know
it just said they
I remember this. Yeah.
>> Like somehow they were selling
or somehow it got turned on
and it sold all stocks that started with
an L M N O or P for a dollar. Now if
you're going to test something why
wouldn't you sell sell it for a million
dollars so nobody
>> [laughter]
>> ever gets something but they had sell
for a dollar and that thing was working
for about
15 [snorts] seconds and did about two
billion dollars you know a billion
dollars and a half dollars worth of
transactions which you managed to get
undone mostly. Yes. You know
fat finger. What's a fat finger? That's
when you hit the wrong key. And somebody
was like stupid. Somebody put in and do
it. The problem with technology is you
have to check
you know you want to check things over
and over again but if you build in nine
checks,
nobody takes it seriously cuz they know
eight other people are going to check
it. It doesn't even solve the problem to
build in more layers of checking because
it's mind-numbing to check something
where there's not a problem except once
every 2 years. Who's going to live Who's
going to sleep through that? No.
The world I said the world is getting
dangerous in a way When I started out in
a trading room, everyone was said out
loud. Somebody would say buy and you
know, people and it was all noise.
Today, you go into a trading room
and you'd you'd communicate digitally
with the person sitting next to you. In
the old days, you'd shout across the
room.
And if somebody said something wrong, a
buy instead of a sell or the wrong
number or the wrong price, the whole
room would stop and everybody would look
at that person.
You would hear it. Now, nobody hears
anything and if they did, they wouldn't
know because no one can intuit anything
cuz it's all a lot of algorithms and a
lot of technology trading. So, I would
say
with technology,
technology is leverage and leverage is
good when it's going the right way and
leverage is bad when it's going the
wrong way. And by the way, that's in
life. And you If you had an indust you
know, prior to
the age we're in today, the the where
you know, where the nuclear age, where
where a prolif- proliferating in more
atomic power and things like that, even
for good uses,
what could an industrial accident be?
And if you think Do you think the
biggest industrial accident
was Bhopal, Union Carbide,
8 or 9,000, very tragic, horrible
situation, liability for Union Carbide
died.
In Fukushima, the Japanese when they had
the tsunami and it affected plenty If
the wind had been going in a different
direction, you would have had millions
of people die. That's technology and
progress for you. So, not only is there
leverage, the ability to intuit and see
what the problem is is less. So, I I
just postulated that you know, we have
all these safeguards, all these things,
all these state actors malevolently
trying to cause Yes, but you know
something? I'm also worried about the
mistake, the fat finger, the
unintentional thing because when that
How do you build it It's hard to build
in safeguards because the more
safeguards that you build, the more
repose and relaxed you get about each
one of them. And nobody you find out
that no one's doing their No one's doing
their job.
I mean, it seems inevitable to me now
that AI is going to become more and more
of banks' risk management or back office
systems. Would you Like what parts of a
bank would you feel comfortable
outsourcing? Oh, everything everything
shy of the job I had.
>> Okay. Go on. Who You know, we don't know
I mean, the greatest technologists today
aren't sure themselves where it'll go,
but I think
you're going to Look, if you think about
it,
our brains,
you know,
our brain, you know, our brains are all
we're just wiring. We're just We're just
code. We're a lot of line We're a lot a
lot of lines of code, but we're just
code. And at some point you cross into
judgment and reasoning. And I'm sure
it'll happen. I'm sure it's a lot. I'm
sure I'm sure my
the people who at least until they start
to walk better than they walk today, the
people who garden for me and the and the
massage therapists and the personal
trainers are safe. Well, man, maybe not
even personal trainers. But everything
shy of that is just some You know, and
and then we're going to just have to and
then there'll be more jobs that leverage
whatever stage of progress we're at.
You know, once upon a time, not that
long ago, beginning of the 20th century,
more than half the country was involved
in agriculture.
Guess what? We absorbed those people,
but it's not without stresses and
strains. Not everybody who's, you know,
work Not everybody who's a software
programmer is going to become a um
you know, is going to you know, is going
to be a Pilates teacher. Right. Um and
so there'll be some stress and
dislocation. Um, but who knows where
society's going to evolve? Maybe, you
know, remember, you know, from school
you read the Marxist ideal where
everybody's going to only have to work
four days a week, Marx's ideology. Who
knows, maybe there'll be once upon a
time there was a six-day work week
uh even on Wall Street. People came in
Saturday, that's when they did the
That's when they did all the back office
stuff. And maybe we go to a three-day
work week. Maybe we work Once upon a
time it was a 10-day 10-hour work day,
now it's an 8-hour work day, maybe it
goes to five. Maybe we Everybody just
works less and moans to high heaven if
they have to work four hours that day.
So, I'm not, you know,
by the way, it doesn't matter whether we
like it or not, it's going to happen.
Right. So, we could spend a lot of time
mourning for it and regretting it, but
it's going to happen. But the idea
that machines are going to do a lot of
stuff that we do When I started when I
started on Wall Street,
you know, the tape Many people don't
know, you know, ticker tape, what is
that? Ticker tape. Those were the
threads that came out. Well, once upon a
time, that's how you communicated.
You communicate tickers and you couldn't
get it back, so you had to proofread it
very carefully. Yeah. And you had to
make sure that the confirmation you were
sending to the Central Bank of China,
Beijing, didn't go to the Central Bank
of China, Taiwan.
>> Right. And you'd kill yourself. So, I
spent three hours a day doing that.
Nobody spends any time doing that. When
I practice law, you used to have to go
and look at every case that ever
mentioned a case you relied on lest it
be had been overruled or criticized. I
spent days doing that. No one spends
minutes doing that today. That's
progress, it's going to happen, and I I
welcome it, particularly since I've
already made my money and I'm
unemployed.
Must be nice. Joe, when I first joined
Bloomberg, one of my key duties was to
monitor the fax machine just in case the
Bank of Japan sent a fax Do they still
they Do they communicate with us? I
believe it's been automated now. One of
the versions of the future that people
talk about is that okay AI is going to
come a bunch of white collar jobs are
going to be eliminated and there's going
to be some sort of like universal basic
income redistribution so that people can
survive. But in theory like that would
require
some taxation and the the few the
handful of winter the handful of winners
of the AI world like they'd have to find
some way to tax their wealth perhaps.
But this could I'm really interested in
taxation because like
I pay a good chunk of my salary
disappears in taxes. We had a good year
last year so we got a bonus as of
recently a good chunk immediately
disappeared. I'm not going to like
>> So now you're not a social democrat any
you know No no I'm just saying it's fine
it's like not the end of the world. I
don't love it but it's not the end of
the world. It's hard for me to wrap my
head around people who have all the
money in the world and still optimize
their lives about going to the lowest
marginal tax jurisdiction.
>> crazy.
>> you haven't done that.
>> No I haven't done But you're still in
New York but can you help me wrap
>> but I'll just say that's why they have
that a lot of money to begin with cuz
that's how they cuz that's how they cuz
that's how they think. Um
and also they compete fiercely
competitive and they just want to win. I
mean actually it's good in a way. I'm
glad that the Mark Zuckerbergs and you
know you may like or dislike these names
of people but the fact is or Elon Musk
they're on the cutting edge and they're
still motivated to work. Thank goodness
I'm glad they I'm glad there are. I'm
glad they work. But to just extrapolate
the point you're making the an economic
system has to do a couple of things I
mean it has to do a lot of things but
two major things. It has to create
wealth
and then it has to allocate that wealth
create thus created according to the
values of society. I think our cap our
system has done
a pretty good job in creating wealth.
Nobody can get out there and figure out
what the new thing is and nobody's more
ruthless
about taking things that fail
getting rid of them and repurposing them
and getting them off the balance sheet
and building, you know, plowing over
that airport that no one lands at and
making it turn it into a Walmart.
Nobody's better at doing that. But where
we have done poorly is
the allocation of it. The The allocation
of the proceeds. And that's of course
where a lot of the polarization that
we're living through now and
you know, so a variety of things, you
know, you have to you know,
obviously progressive taxation is one of
them. Just building the safety net so
things are free and available to
everything that previously you would
have had to pay for. So,
um public housing has air conditioning
now. Public housing when I grew up
didn't have air conditioning. So, making
life better at a base minimum, but
that's the task that um and that's the
challenge that we have to do to allocate
based upon values in a way that doesn't
disincentivize people from working. So,
at some level of taxation you may to be
disincentivized from working. Poor Elon
Musk went back to his shareholders and
said, you know, I'm only worth $500
billion because you took away
uh you took away my options from the
Tesla thing. Give them back or else I'm
not going to work for Tesla anymore. So,
there. And so, he got it back. And so,
now he's got that extra stimulus of
billions 501 to 749. So,
you know, you
people do what they do. But by the way,
I'm glad he's working and I'm glad he's
one of mine and I still can't believe
those rocket ships can land in tandem
It's incredible.
>> and nobody else seems to be able to do
it. So, bravo. Keep on going. I'll give
you an extra couple of dollars if it'll
help you.
>> [laughter]
>> Um you know, we started this
conversation talking about how your
career trajectory kind of mirrored the
rise of globalization. But the other
thing it mirrored was the rise of
trading and thick in in on Wall Street.
I'm curious if you have any sense
nowadays what the next sort of booming
business is going to be among the
investment thesis. Everything kind of
feels the same. Everything kind of feels
flat. Like is there something that's
going to take off or what? It's not It's
not the same, but it rhymes. You know,
it doesn't repeat, but it rhymes. You
know, really the last generation, the
you know, the cool kids in town were,
you know, private equity and
alternatives. Feels a little less cool
the last couple of days.
You know, you know, it shifts, but
you know, there's always, you know,
we're always ringing out efficiencies
for things and we're always figuring
out, you know, risk versus reward and so
illiquid stuff looked better than public
market stuff. Then you have a liquidity
event where people try to sell and they
get gated and it's not working out so
well and so that goes
I
I don't know. I think
you know, the one of the things that AI
can't really do
is they can't take risk. They could tell
you, in my opinion, based upon my, you
know, work in this algorithm against
this huge database,
how those dice would have rolled and
what, you know, what percentages when it
will do these simulations and stuff, but
at the end of the day,
you know, you have to still apply
judgment. And if we were sitting here
having a conversation 100 years ago, by
the way,
people 100 years from now
are going to be around. I don't know if
they'll be sitting on this chair or
floating
above ground, but they're going to be
talking about how primitive we were
thinking that we're, you know, we're
thinking sitting here thinking how cool
we are today and how everything's
up-to-date in Kansas City and everything
is good and and and and and novel. But
all this is going to look stupid. Could
you imagine they carried their cell
phones? Ha ha ha ha. Well, could you
imagine Yeah, I mean,
this stuff
but they'll Oh, but some things as
general principles are we are going to
persist. I think they'll be create
create, you know,
still people going to still write music
and natural, you know,
people will fill in the gaps. If you
plug in a song, it'll public it'll it'll
publish another song like that, but will
it do something radically innovative? I
don't know. It's possible again, brains
are lines of code. Maybe they'll just
have more lines of code and eventually
do it. But, I do think certain things
like willingness to take risk, judgment.
I've known so many brilliant people and
I've known so many people with good
judgment. It's amazing how infrequently
those those come together at the same
person at the same time.
Within a given bank, you know, there's
the the push-pull or the tug between,
okay, now bank banking and deal making
is hot or trading is hot and it seems to
go back and forth. Like
is there a direction at Goldman or any
other bank with the where the next
leader is going to come from? Could it
come from the technology side?
Yes, well, first of all, it already has.
In a firm like Goldman,
I bet over a third of the population of
the firm are engineers.
It was when I was there. It wouldn't
have gotten It would It wouldn't have
gotten less in a short in the in this
period of time. If anything, it would
have gone more in that direction. So,
it already is engineering to in
efficiency. Look, we're in a world now
where in
trading and market making, a lot of
which is done algorithmically by
machines,
it's a millisecond game.
If you have your computers
a half a block closer to the main to the
to the main computers of the of the
platform,
you win everything because I mean, even
moving at the speed of light, getting
there ahead it is So, that's already
been That's already
you know, that's already been done.
But,
in a firm It's answer maybe maybe I'm
interpreting the question a little bit
differently.
These things happen at different times.
So,
sometimes it's the people who put deals
together, sometimes it's the people who
finance deals, sometimes the biggest,
coolest kids on on block are the risk
managers who
prevent the firm from discombobulation
and manage risk so successfully so the
other people can do their jobs. In our
organization, one of the things that I
think has helped Goldman Sachs through
the ages is that we still the firm is
still run like a part It's 26 years
since it was a private partnership.
Half of my tenure was as a private part
in a private partnership, half was in a
company, but we ran the firm as a
partnership. Everybody in the firm got
paid
largely on based on the how the firm as
a whole did, not just their narrow area.
People
people um
who did a good job and it wasn't their
turn or the market was working in a way
that they couldn't make money, got
compensated well for doing a good job
even if the opportunity wasn't there.
And if it was an easy market to make
money in and they weren't doing a good
job and didn't do well, didn't matter
that they did well. You know, in other
words, we looked at the firm as a whole,
people had to look out for each other.
Uh and it was place was run as a
partnership. That's very helpful. If you
have a firm full of people who are
owners,
everyone is looking around what the
people next to them are doing and if
they see bad behavior or something's not
right, they demand information about the
whole firm, not just their narrow area,
and they give you opinions even when you
don't want to hear it.
And so and guess what? It's a little bit
slower and harder to run that
organization, but I think you get a
better you get a better outcome.
Uh now that the book is officially
published, it's been a whole 18 hours I
suppose since it's been published, but
is there anything with the benefit of of
that 18 hours of of daylight and
reminiscence um
that you wish you had included in the
book and that you left out? I want the
the really good part.
>> are always telling me I told you know we
had you know Bloomberg was very nice
enough uh
Mike in in Bloomberg, the man, not
necessarily the company, hosted an event
last night and I thought of a Bloomberg.
There was a story that I told that at
the end of it, I I could tell you the
story, but
>> Please.
Okay. When I first got a when I you know
when I first a million years ago when
the first Bloomberg terminals came out
and I was a fairly junior person and
they would they put a Bloomberg terminal
in front of me that about 900 people
were supposed to share, but it was right
in front of me
and everybody was walking by it like
they were walking Remember the movie
2001 a Space
>> Yeah. Yeah. Odyssey. Remember the
obelisk?
>> Obelisk. Yeah. The obelisk and
everyone's doing this. And everybody was
doing that. And I finally figured out
how to use it. I put yellow paste-ins on
it with my schedule and numbers that I
had to look out for. In other words, I
couldn't turn I didn't know how to turn
on the machine, but I was using it as a
as a bulletin board. And then somebody
calls up and he said
uh Lloyd found line so-and-so. Who is
it? Bloomberg.
So, I said uh I'll call I go call him
back. He said, "No, no, it's Bloomberg
the person, not Bloomberg the company."
And it was Michael Bloomberg and he
calls me and he called up and I get on
the phone and he said "I noticed you had
We noticed you haven't turned on your
machine."
>> [laughter]
>> And I said, "Oh my god, where's the
camera?" Now, he said, "Well, we could
tell Digital surveillance very Yeah, we
turned it in and I said and so I said,
"Well and so you're calling me?" He
goes, "Oh, no, we do the way here and
and [snorts] I don't know if they do it
today, but in early Bloomberg he had all
the senior people in the organization
every day they had to call five
customers each one and call them and
discuss." And I said I said, you know, I
wow.
Um I promise I'll turn on machine. I
probably about 2 years later I figured
out how to do it, but I'll turn on the
machine, but I said "Isn't that a very
um inefficient use of your time?"
Because here you are calling me and I
wasn't a senior uh senior guys. And he
goes, "No, no, we learn a lot about the
business." I realize now that was a very
stupid comment. Because here I am, first
of all, everybody on our floor knew that
Mike had called and that he cared. The
guy whose name was on the door cared
about whether we're using or not. And
not only laterally across that
dimension, everybody knew, but here I am
35 years later telling the story.
And so now you're hearing about it. That
was a very good use of 3 minutes of
Michael Bloomberg that I'm telling that
story
of that that his care and and and so to
me, I know how Bloomberg got built. And
so that was the lesson I learned. So I
told that story and then I said, you
know, Mike,
this book is so good and has so many
good stories that that one didn't even
make it in the book. It's on the cutting
room floor.
If it sells well, maybe volume two or
volume three.
Well, uh we went a couple minutes over,
but that was a it was a it was a good
story.
>> That was a good ad for both the book and
for Bloomberg. So thank you.
>> I know my audience.
Lloyd Blankfein, thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
>> [music]